feat: adds quickstart app dev guide and screenshots (#44)
dhis2/dhis2.github.io: _guides/quickstart-app-development.md

---
title: Quickstart for DHIS2 App Development
category: guide
layout: page
---

> ## Create a new app and connect it to a local DHIS2 instance in 10 minutes or less.

Author: ```suggestion
Create a new app and connect it to a local DHIS2 instance in 10 minutes or less.
```

Author: @deboragaleano just noticed that subtitles are very big on the current rendering of the page. I suggest removing the heading formatting here.

Reviewer: Thanks @veganpolice, somehow I can't commit the suggested change but I can definitely add it when I update other pages 👍

---
title: Quickstart for DHIS2 App Development
category: guide
layout: page
---

> # Quickstart for DHIS2 App Development

Reviewer: I'd delete line 7 as the title is duplicated

## Create a new app and connect it to a local DHIS2 instance in 10 minutes or less.

### Introduction
You can start developing a DHIS2 app on OSX, Windows or Linux using Docker and the DHIS command line interface (CLI). In this guide, you will install the prerequisites, start up a local DHIS2 instance and create a new app. Your app will connect to the local DHIS2 instance.

### Installing prerequisites
If you are using Debian Linux, 
1. Follow the [DHIS2 Docker guide](https://developers.dhis2.org/guides/dhis2-docker) to install the prerequisites

If you are using OSX or Windows,
1. Install [Docker](https://docs.docker.com/get-docker/)
3. Install [yarn](https://classic.yarnpkg.com/en/docs/install)

> 4. From the command line or terminal, install DHIS CLI

Reviewer: on line 21, I'd add the link to the CLI:

`From the command line or terminal, install the DHIS [CLI](https://cli.dhis2.nu/#/getting-started){:target="\_blank"} globally`

Author: Good suggestion/

Pro GitHub tip: If you add "suggestion" after the first ``` in a code block, it can be committed by a user.  e.g. 👇

```suggestion
From the command line or terminal, install the DHIS [CLI](https://cli.dhis2.nu/#/getting-started){:target="\_blank"} globally
```

```
yarn global add @dhis/cli
```

> Now that you have installed Docker and the DHIS CLI you are ready to start up DHIS2

Reviewer: Above line 25 I'd add the following line if it's not redundant? 

`**NB**: Check the `d2` command-line tool with `d2 --help` for more information on available commands.`

Author: I've kept this out for now in the spirit of simplicity. I think the link to the CLI docs as you suggested @deboragaleano is sufficient. `d2 --help` brings up a lot of commands that a new DHIS app developer may never need know about.

Reviewer: You're right! 👌

### Starting a local DHIS2 instance

1. From the terminal, start up DHIS2 and seed the database
```
d2 cluster up 2.35.0 --db-version 2.35 --seed
```

> 2. From the browser, navigate to http://localhost:8080. If DHIS2 is running, you should see the following page,

Reviewer: Here I'd just add the link to the localhost 

`[http://localhost:8080](http://localhost:8080){:target="\_blank"}`

![](../assets/quickstart_guides/image-of-login.png)

If you can load DHIS in the browser, you are ready to create a new app

### Creating a new app
1. From the terminal, create a new DHIS2 app called "my-app"
```
d2 app scripts init my-app
```
2. Change directories to `/my-app` and start the app
```
cd my-app && yarn start
```

### Connecting your app to DHIS2

> 1. From the browser, navigate to http://localhost:3000. You will see the following page

Reviewer: And same thing here  ;-) 

`[http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000){:target="\_blank"}`

![](../assets/quickstart_guides/new-app-login-page.png)

> 2. Enter your DHIS2 server url and the username and password of the default admin user

Reviewer: I think it's `URL`  all caps ?
